---
title: TIL - IFrames, interactive panels, and custom range sliders
date: 2025-01-24
draft: false
excerpt: I wanted to show off my expandable chat window in the my gallery, but  what appeared to be simple example turned into a multi day quest for a solution that was more than are bargained for.
tags:
  - FastHTML
  - TIL
Diataxis:
  - Reference
---
## Background

The day started out with me wanting to add  my 'Chat in Expandable Footer'  to my Gallery [chat_in_expandable_footer - Split View](https://www.gallery.efels.com/split/dynamic_user_interface_\(htmx\)/chat_in_expandable_footer) , but when I added it, it rendered in a really strange way, when it was a stand alone application it worked fine, but on the spit view(code on the left, app on the right), my footer was just floating in the middle of the screen, and we can't have that. It didn't take long for for me an Claude to fix it, but as I worked on the solution a few addition issues popped up that I felt should be easy enough to fix. like adding adding horizontal slider, and adding a horizontal handle on the code section so you can horizontally scroll without having to scroll to the bottom. 

I should have just stopped when I had a working "Chat In Expandable Footer", but as my troubleshooting eat up more and more of my day I realized I wasn't going to be easy.  For references the split screen in the FastHTML Gallery uses a Grid with the Code side in a `Div(Pre(Code(code_text)))` and the app is running in an IFrame

```python
@app.get('/split/{category}/{project}')
def split_view(category: str, project: str):
    try:
        dir_path = Path('examples')/category/project
        code_text = (dir_path/'app.py').read_text().strip()
        info = (dir_path/'info.md').exists()
    except:
        return Response(status_code=404)
    return Container(
        GalleryNavBar(dir_path, info=info, active='split'),

        Title(f"{dir_path.name} - Split View"),
            Grid(Div(Pre(Code(code_text, cls='language-python'))),
                Div(Iframe(src=f"/app/{category}/{project}/",style="width: 100%; height: 100%; border: none;")),
                cols_sm=1, cols_md=1, cols_lg=2))
```

### Goals
- [X] Render chat in expandable Footer properly 
- [ ] resizable split views
- [ ] Horizontal scrollbar handles (code side of split view)
## Result
1. attempt - use interactJS Horizontal slider
	- The slider would get stuck on the mouse when it was in the iFrame causing a weird user experience.
2. attempt - put code in IFrame
	- putting the code side in an IFrame was the only solution I found that made it possible to have the horizontal scrollbar handle present without having to scroll to the bottom of the code. 
3. attempt - put code in IFrame with Range slider
	- using two iFrames worked on my local dev environment so it was time to move to how we can incorporate resizable split views using a Range Slider, which is 
	- I was thinking Range sliders were like other MonserUi element where I could just put an icon it the thumb but as it turns out it is far from easy, check out post [TIL -100 ways not to make a custom range sliders](posts/TIL-2025-02-09) for more information about Range Sliders. 
	- after a multi data attempt to get it just right, I decided I was close enough and decided to push it to production, only to find that the Code IFrame resulted in a security violation but for some reason not the App. after another day of troubleshooting I decided it was ok to not have the code horizontal scrollbar and a mostly complete Range Slider was good enough for now. 




